
step 1: Install anaconda

go to the following webpage
https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/#download-section

click on download below Python 3.7 version

while installing on the installation GUI do not check on
"add anaconda to my path environment variable"
(because this may cause problems later, you may have to reinstall anaconda)

step 2: after installing anaconda

1. click on windows button
2. type anaconda prompt
3. click on anaconda prompt on the start menu
4. the anaconda command prompt will come up
5. the anaconda command prompt will show -  (base) c:\Users\Gururajan>
(if you get the following error on the first line of command prompt)

step 3: if you get the error Could Not Find C:\Windows\TEMP\tmpphs6639h.bat

do the following

Right-click on C:\Windows\Temp in Windows Explorer and select Properties
Click the Security tab
Click Advanced
give full control under permissions


http://helpcenter.perpetuumsoft.com/kb/a590/error-source-file-c-windows-temp-xxxxx-could-not-be-found.aspx
Click Change Permissions
If the IIS group is not listed, Add the group.  Once added, or if it was already listed, set the permissions to at least ‘List folder / read data’ for this folder, subfolders and files
If the Users group is not listed, Add the group.  Once added, or if it was already listed, set the permissions to at least ‘Traverse folder / execute file, Create files / write data, Create folders / append data’ for this folder, subfolders and files.
Apply all changes and click OK until all dialogs are closed

step 4: open the command prompt windows
close the command prompt and open again
then you should not get that error

you will just get -  (base) c:\Users\Gururajan>


step 5: check the version

type python --version
python 3.7.4

type anaconda --version
anaconda Command line client (version 1.7.2)

step 6: you are not able to see the directories on jupyter notebook
uninstall google chrome
re-install it
you will be able to see the directories on the jupyter notebook

as an alternative you can also do the following:
type jupyter notebook on the command prompt to open the jupyter notebook.
while opening, you will get black command prompt screens. you can copy the link from the black command prompt screen and paste it on microsoft edge or firefox. Then you will able to see the directories on microsoft edge or on firefox


step 7: adjust the properites of the command prompt windows to suit your taste

a) right click on the border of the command prompt window
b) go to font tab
c) select lucia console font
d) select font size 18
e) then click on layout tab
f) increase the width of the command prompt window
g) increaes the height of the command prompt windows

