
SciPy  -  develped in C, C++ and Python

SciPy (pronounced “Sigh Pie”) is a Python-based ecosystem of open-source software for mathematics, science, and engineering. In particular, these are some of the core packages:

Numpy
Matplotlib
Pandas
Sympy
IPython
SciPy Library



NumPy  -  developed in C and Python

NumPy is the fundamental package for scientific computing with Python. It contains among other things:

a powerful N-dimensional array object
sophisticated (broadcasting) functions
tools for integrating C/C++ and Fortran code
useful linear algebra, Fourier transform, and random number capabilities
Besides its obvious scientific uses, NumPy can also be used as an efficient multi-dimensional container of generic data. Arbitrary data-types can be defined. This allows NumPy to seamlessly and speedily integrate with a wide variety of databases.

NumPy is licensed under the BSD license, enabling reuse with few restrictions



Pandas

Python Data Analysis Library

pandas is an open source, BSD-licensed library providing high-performance, easy-to-use data structures and data analysis tools for the Python programming language

pip, pip3   sudo pip3 install python-pandas


Matplotlib

Matplotlib is a Python 2D plotting library which produces publication quality figures in a variety of hardcopy formats and interactive environments across platforms. Matplotlib can be used in Python scripts, the Python and IPython shell, the jupyter notebook, web application servers, and four graphical user interface toolkits

sudo pip install python-pandas
sudo pip3 install python-pandas

Statsmodels

statsmodels is a Python module that provides classes and functions for the estimation of many different statistical models, as well as for conducting statistical tests, and statistical data exploration. An extensive list of result statistics are available for each estimator. The results are tested against existing statistical packages to ensure that they are correct. The package is released under the open source Modified BSD (3-clause) license. The online documentation is hosted at statsmodels.org



IPython

IPython provides a rich architecture for interactive computing with:

A powerful interactive shell.
A kernel for Jupyter
Support for interactive data visualization and use of GUI toolkits.
Flexible, embeddable interpreters to load into your own projects.
Easy to use, high performance tools for parallel computing.



ScikitLearn - 2008 - 9 years - google engineers - slightly old - very powerful
                               google library - TensorFlow - 2015

Scikit-learn (formerly scikits.learn) is a free software machine learning library for the Python programming language.

Machine Learning in Python

Simple and efficient tools for data mining and data analysis
Accessible to everybody, and reusable in various contexts
Built on NumPy, SciPy, and matplotlib
Open source, commercially usable - BSD license


NLTK - developed in python and C

Natural Language Toolkit - university development

NLTK is a leading platform for building Python programs to work with human language data. It provides easy-to-use interfaces to over 50 corpora and lexical resources such as WordNet, along with a suite of text processing libraries for classification, tokenization, stemming, tagging, parsing, and semantic reasoning, wrappers for industrial-strength NLP libraries, and an active discussion forum.

Thanks to a hands-on guide introducing programming fundamentals alongside topics in computational linguistics, plus comprehensive API documentation, NLTK is suitable for linguists, engineers, students, educators, researchers, and industry users alike. NLTK is available for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux. Best of all, NLTK is a free, open source, community-driven project.

NLTK has been called “a wonderful tool for teaching, and working in, computational linguistics using Python,” and “an amazing library to play with natural language.”

Natural Language Processing with Python provides a practical introduction to programming for language processing. Written by the creators of NLTK, it guides the reader through the fundamentals of writing Python programs, working with corpora, categorizing text, analyzing linguistic structure, and more


OpenCV  -  developed in python - library for computer vision, using cameras
                                 survielence


OpenCV (Open Source Computer Vision Library) is released under a BSD license and hence it’s free for both academic and commercial use. It has C++, C, Python and Java interfaces and supports Windows, Linux, Mac OS, iOS and Android. OpenCV was designed for computational efficiency and with a strong focus on real-time applications. Written in optimized C/C++, the library can take advantage of multi-core processing. Enabled with OpenCL, it can take advantage of the hardware acceleration of the underlying heterogeneous compute platform.

Adopted all around the world, OpenCV has more than 47 thousand people of user community and estimated number of downloads exceeding 14 million. Usage ranges from interactive art, to mines inspection, stitching maps on the web or through advanced robotics.


tensorflow - developed in python

An open-source software library for Machine Intelligence

TensorFlow is an open source software library released in 2015 by Google to make it easier for developers to design, build, and train deep learning models. ... At a high level, TensorFlow is a Python library that allows users to express arbitrary computation as a graph of data flows

TensorFlow is an open source software library for numerical computation using data flow graphs. Nodes in the graph represent mathematical operations, while the graph edges represent the multidimensional data arrays (tensors) communicated between them. The flexible architecture allows you to deploy computation to one or more CPUs or GPUs in a desktop, server, or mobile device with a single API. TensorFlow was originally developed by researchers and engineers working on the Google Brain Team within Google's Machine Intelligence research organization for the purposes of conducting machine learning and deep neural networks research, but the system is general enough to be applicable in a wide variety of other domains as well


caffe - developed in C++ - deep learning

Caffe is a deep learning framework made with expression, speed, and modularity in mind. It is developed by Berkeley AI Research (BAIR) and by community contributors. Yangqing Jia created the project during his PhD at UC Berkeley


Torch  -  developed in C and C++ - deep learning

Torch (machine learning) Torch is an open source machine learning library, a scientific computing framework, and a script language based on the Lua programming language. It provides a wide range of algorithms for deep machine learning, and uses the scripting language LuaJIT, and an underlying C implementation