

what are the frameworks needed ?

numpy
scipy
pandas
matplotlib
seaborn
pylab
tensorflow
keras
jupyter notebook



what is conda and what is anaconda?

Anaconda:

Anaconda is a free and open-source distribution of the Python and R programming languages for scientific computing (data science, machine learning applications, large-scale data processing, predictive analytics, etc.), that aims to simplify package management and deployment

Anaconda is a python distribution, with installation and package management tools

It provides large selection of packages and commercial support. It is an environment manager, which provides the facility to create different python environments, each with their own settings

It also provides much greater advantages in the data science platform.

it already contains jupyter notebook and spyder IDE pre-installed


Conda:

“Conda”, the Anaconda’s own package manager, is used for updating anaconda and its packages

Conda is a cross platform package and environment manager. It provides installing, executing and updating different packages along with their dependencies

It helps in switching between environments in our local machine


anaconda environment commands
-----------------------------

how to install and un-install a python package in anaconda environment ?

conda install "package name"
conda uninstall "package name"


how to install and uninstall python packages outside of anaconda environment ?

pip install "package name"
pip uninstall "package name"


how to update anaconda?

conda update conda
conda update anaconda

what is anaconda navigator ?

Channels are locations where Navigator and conda look for packages.
Navigator and conda only search for packages in active channels. You can temporarily disable a channel by making it inactive.

what is a channel in anaconda ?

You can search and browse packages and channels on Anaconda Cloud
Channels are locations where Navigator and conda look for packages

you can find more information about anaconda navigator here
https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/navigator/tutorials/manage-channels/


how to find the list of packages, their versions and their channels in anaconda?

conda list - will give packages, versions and their channels
pip list - will give the names and versions of all the packdages