


Normalization is good to use when you know that the distribution of your data does not follow a Gaussian distribution

Standardization, on the other hand, can be helpful in cases where the data follows a Gaussian distribution

Normalization is a good technique to use when you do not know the distribution of your data or when you know the distribution is not Gaussian (a bell curve). Normalization is useful when your data has varying scales and the algorithm you are using does not make assumptions about the distribution of your data, such as k-nearest neighbors and artificial neural networks.

Standardization assumes that your data has a Gaussian (bell curve) distribution. This does not strictly have to be true, but the technique is more effective if your attribute distribution is Gaussian. Standardization is useful when your data has varying scales and the algorithm you are using does make assumptions about your data having a Gaussian distribution, such as linear regression, logistic regression, and linear discriminant analysis.


Applying Max-Min Nomaralisation in our dataset has generated smaller standard deviations (Salary and Age) than using Standardisation method. It implies the data are more concentrated around the mean if we scale data using Max-Min Nomaralisation.


if you have outliers in your feature (column), normalizing your data will scale most of the data to a small interval, which means all features will have the same scale but does not handle outliers well. Standardisation is more robust to outliers, and in many cases, it is preferable over Max-Min Normalisation.


Some machine learning models are fundamentally based on distance matrix, also known as the distance-based classifier, for example, K-Nearest-Neighbours, SVM, and Neural Network. Feature scaling is extremely essential to those models, especially when the range of the features is very different. Otherwise, features with a large range will have a large influence in computing the distance.

Max-Min Normalisation typically allows us to transform the data with varying scales so that no specific dimension will dominate the statistics, and it does not require making a very strong assumption about the distribution of the data, such as k-nearest neighbours and artificial neural networks. However, Normalisation does not treat outliners very well. On the contrary, standardisation allows users to better handle the outliers and facilitate convergence for some computational algorithms like gradient descent. Therefore, we usually prefer standardisation over Min-Max Normalisation.








